https://www.forbes.com/sites/karlynborysenko/2019/01/04/ten-things-new-managers-need-to-know/

Let your people lead in their area, even if you don't always agree with where they are going. 

If you want your employees to be empowered to do their best work, that requires taking a step back. Remember, your role is to provide guidance, you can do 
this by asking questions to make sure your team member has fully considered their approach. But if their ideas are different than the way you would have done it, 
most of the time the best way to go is to let them go try what they want to do and see what happens. There's always more than one way to meet a goal, and very 
few of us work in jobs that are truly life and death. If they fail, it's a teaching moment and an opportunity to iterative f. 
And if they succeed using a strategy that you wouldn't have picked, that's still a win for you!

In those one-on-one meetings, you want to hit on three things:

Their update of the things they've been working on, and what they need from you to help them succeed.
Your update for them of all the information they need to know to do their job well.
A quick brainstorm of future goals, ideas they have and development they might need. This is also a great place to integrate coaching.


Never give critical feedback on people's emotions. Instead, focus on behavior and impact.

Be unapologetically optimistic.

The above example explains how to give critical feedback well, but the reality is that you should give out much more positive feedback than you are negative 
feedback for one simple reason: Positive feedback is significantly more motivating than critical feedback. In fact, every single business outcome that can be 
tested for rises when your brain is in a state of positivity.

Your job is to make your people successful. 

At the end of the day, you will be judged based on the success of your team. That means that they are your first priority. The minute you start deviating from 
that path is the minute you wander into "bad boss" territory.

It might be helpful to do quick exercise at the end of every day and make a list of the ways you set your employees up for success that day. It will help you to 
take stock, hold yourself accountable, and make sure you are 
focusing on the things that matter most.


